Masterclass refresh (#41)
balena-io/debugging-masterclass: README.md

  - `git clone https://github.com/balena-io-projects/debugging-masterclass.git`
  - Download ZIP file (from 'Clone or download'->'Download ZIP') and then unzip it to a suitable directory
- A balena supported device, such as a [balenaFin
  1.1](https://store.balena.io/products/balenafin-developer-kit-v1-1-cm3-l), [Raspberry Pi
  3](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b/) or [Intel
  NUC](https://www.intel.co.uk/content/www/uk/en/products/boards-kits/nuc.html). If you don't have a device, you can emulate an Intel NUC by
  installing VirtualBox and following [this guide](https://www.balena.io/blog/no-hardware-use-virtualbox/)
- A suitable shell environment for command execution (such as `bash`)
- A [balenaCloud](https://www.balena.io/) account
- A familiarity with [Dockerfiles](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/)
- An installed instance of the [balena CLI](https://github.com/balena-io/balena-cli/)

## Exercises

The following exercises assume access to a device that has been provisioned.
As per the other masterclasses in this series we're going to assume that's a

> Raspberry Pi 4, however you can simply alter the device type as appropriate in the

Reviewer: Why change the example device type? I know it's hard to get ahold of one right now but I think it was intentional that our example documentation was based on our custom hardware.

Author: Good question @klutchell —The reasoning is that it's more future proof since we are deprecating the balenaFin project after the next production cycle.

fleet:

```shell
$ balena fleet create --type raspberrypi4-64 DebugApp

> Fleet created: slug "ryanh/debugapp2", device type "raspberrypi4-64"

Reviewer: AFAIK the fleet create command requires that you specify an org. How did it get `ryanh/debugapp2` when you asked to create `DebugApp`?

Reviewer 2: Asking the right questions ⬆️ 
Including one more suggestion to keep fleet, device names as generic as possible. And, phasing out the word app from the docs. So I would suggest using balenaFleet or DebugFleet instead.

Author: @klutchell It doesn't require an org, it will default to the logged in account's default AFAIK. It defaulted to that slug `ryanh/debugapp2` because I already had a `ryanh/debugapp`. I can update this and re-run the sequence too to make sure I copy it out exactly!

Author: @vipulgupta2048 While I like your suggestion of using fleet instead of app in the fleet name, I don't think it's valuable at this time to go through the entire thing again, just to change the name. I wish I had thought to do this first. Perhaps it would be best to circle back on a future update (when cli/api/supervisor/engine/os etc have been further updated and I'll need to update log output and commands anyway). What do you think?

Author: I figured out a way to do it more easily @vipulgupta2048 , I'll update the requested sections so far from you and Kyle and push another commit

```

Now provision a device by downloading and flashing a _development_ image from the
Dashboard (via Etcher), or by flashing via the command line.

```shell

> $ balena os download raspberrypi4-64 --version "2022.7.0.dev" --output balena-debug.img

Reviewer: Are ESR releases available to free accounts?

Author: They are not, correct @klutchell . balena agents going through the masterclass will/should have "Team Member" accounts, so they have access to ESR releases. I also wanted a chance to plug them a bit. Do you think it would be a good idea to have a **Note** explaining and linking to ESR docs, perhaps with the caveat that for free accounts, they will need to select a different balenaOS release? None of the rest of my updates *require* ESR, so following along from other DT's and releases should be similar or nearly identical.

Author: Resolved with note in next commit

for more details), or use a configuration for an ethernet connection:

```shell

> $ balena os configure balena-debug.img --fleet DebugApp --config-network=ethernet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ balena os configure balena-debug.img --fleet DebugFleet --config-network=ethernet
```

Author: @vipulgupta2048 I wonder if I can find and replace DebugApp -> DebugFleet, even log entries to convert the DebugApp to DebugFleet. I'll have to find slugs too that have ryanh/debugapp for example. I'll have to be careful, but that way we can phase out App. Hmm.

Any device owned by a customer automatically allows access by that user via
either the WebTerminal (in the device's Dashboard page), or the balena CLI
via `balena ssh <uuid>`. However, for a support agent to gain access to a device
that isn't owned by them, a user that does have access must
grant it explicitly.

#### 1.1 Granting Support Access to a Support Agent

A user can grant access to support agents by selecting the device from the

> Dashboard, and then selecting the 'Actions' tab in the left-hand side panel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dashboard, and then selecting the 'Actions' tab in the sidebar.
```

Side bar naturally is the word for a "Panel on the left" Since no one does panels on the right for web applications except in mobiles.

Author: SGTM @vipulgupta2048 👍

#### 1.2 Access Restrictions

There are limits on what a support agent may do with a device they have
been granted access to. This includes the alteration of variables and

> configurations (both fleet and device) and the ability to reboot the device.

Reviewer: ...and apply upgrades, pin releases, etc etc. How much detail do we want here? Best to keep it vague since it can change.

Author: Good point @klutchell , I got the impression from the previous authors that they wanted to include the limitations at the time. They have obviously been extended and the one I thought of off the top of my head was device rebooting. Do you think, even if the list is partial, that it would be good to mention upgrades, release pinning, etc? My vote that even a partial list that hints at restrictions, perhaps ending with "and other things", would be better since the whole point of the masterclass is to dabble in a lot of areas to provide insight that an agent/customer may not know. Thoughts?

Let's take a look at the device provisioned earlier that should now be
running the code pushed to the DebugApp. Bring up the balenaCloud Dashboard
page and select 'Diagnostics' from the left-hand panel.

Diagnostics are split into three separate sections: Device health checks, Device diagnostics and Supervisor state.

#### 2.1 Device Health Checks

Select the 'Device Health Checks' tab in the Diagnostics page, and then click

> 'Run checks'. This will take a couple of minutes. A set of [health checks](https://github.com/balena-io-modules/device-diagnostics/blob/master/diagnostics.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
'Run checks'. This may take a couple of minutes. A set of [health checks](https://github.com/balena-io-modules/device-diagnostics/blob/master/diagnostics.md)
```

Author: I'll update this, thanks.

Aug 18 11:14:32 9294512 systemd[1]: balena.service: Main process exited, code=killed, status=9/KILL
```

As you can see, the `balena.service` was killed with a `SIGKILL` instruction.

You can also see the two times that our services were attempted to start after the engine was killed and restarted automatically by running:

```shell
root@7db55ce:~# journalctl --no-pager -n 400 -u balena.service | grep frontend -A 5
...
Aug 18 11:15:05 9294512 89fe7a71a40d[6061]: > frontend@1.0.0 start /usr/src/app
Aug 18 11:15:05 9294512 89fe7a71a40d[6061]: > node index.js
Aug 18 11:15:05 9294512 89fe7a71a40d[6061]:
Aug 18 11:15:06 9294512 422820756f15[6061]:
Aug 18 11:15:06 9294512 422820756f15[6061]: > backend@1.0.0 start /usr/src/app
Aug 18 11:15:06 9294512 422820756f15[6061]: > node index.js
```

As you can see, these have now been specifically output for the two running
service containers.

If you _only_ want to see balenaEngine output and not from any of the service
containers it is running, use `journalctl -u balena.service -t balenad`. The
`-t` is the shortened form of `--identifier=<id>`, which in this case ensures
that only messages from the `balenad` syslog identifier are shown.

> We'll discuss balenaEngine & Supervisor crashes and restarts later in this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We'll discuss issues with balenaEngine and Supervisor later in this
```

Author: 👍
